Good morning.
Welcome to session 130.
I'm Todd Fernandez,
the AppleScript Automator
Engineering Manager.
I'm very pleased to be here with you
this morning to tell you everything
you need to know about how to create
great Automator Actions for your
scriptable apps using AppleScript.
We have a very simple
agenda this morning.
This is a hands-on session.
I'm going to take about 10 minutes
to go through a brief introduction
and cover some important background
topics that you'll need to understand.
And then dive right into
our example project.
We're going to, together I hope,
if you've got your PowerBooks and
have downloaded the sample code,
build an Automator Action using
AppleScript together.
And I'll conclude with some pointers
to some additional information that
will help you learn about building
Automator Actions with AppleScript and
then answer all your questions.
So the first thing I'd like to do
is kind of take a brief survey.
How many of you have used Automator?
How many of you have used
runAppleScript action in a workflow?
All right.
How many of you have built an action?
How many of you have shipped
an action to customers?
Okay, a couple hands.
Well, I hope next year when I ask that
question there will be a lot more hands.
So we released Automator along with
Tiger about six weeks ago and the
reviews have been very flattering.
I just wanted to highlight
one from Andy Anotko.
Now, that second sentence I could
spin a really complicated
rationale as to why it's up there,
but it's really so I have the
word "ginchiness" on my slide and
so I can say it to all of you.
The second thing I'll point out is
that if you take away the geeky jargon,
which would probably leave you with
about this left out of the review,
this could have been
written by my mother.
So you're welcome, Andy,
and we love you too.
So turning that around a bit,
I really wanted to express my thanks
to those developers who've created
those over 550 Automator Actions
that have already been released.
Last year I challenged the
developers of the conference to
catch the wave and really adopt
this great new technology for Tiger,
and you really rose to the challenge.
And I and the team really
appreciate your support.
For those of you who have
not come on board yet,
but have a scriptable application,
you must realize that you have some
powerful functionality there that's
often hidden beneath the surface,
accessible only to that small
percentage of users that are
comfortable with writing scripts.
The advent of Automator gives
you a great opportunity to take
advantage of that hidden power and
expose it to a much wider audience,
thereby attracting new
customers for your application.
And once a customer adopts
your application and builds it
into their automated workflows,
well, you've got a loyal customer because
they are not going to want to
go back to doing things by hand.
So with that as a little
bit of motivation,
let's start talking about
Automator and what you need to
know to create actions for it.
So what is Automator?
Well, for those of you who
raised your hands before,
you know, but for the rest of you,
it's what we call a personal
automation assistant.
And it consists of four main pieces.
The Automator application itself,
which is what you use
to create workflows,
a large set of actions,
over 200 that Apple shipped with Tiger,
and again, over 550 that you and your
colleagues have already created,
tools to create actions,
and a set of example action projects
as well as workflows to give users an
idea of what they can do with Automator.
So I've been talking about
actions and workflows,
and again, this will be review for those
of you familiar with Automator,
but an action is what
you all need to create.
And it's a simple piece of functionality
that does one specific task.
For example, copying Finder items from
one location to another.
So where do users get these?
Well, as I've already mentioned,
we have over 200 that came
with Tiger that Apple created.
Third-party software developers are
creating them for their applications.
And some users who have the
necessary programming or scripting
expertise can create their own.
So what is a workflow?
Well,
this is what Automator users create.
And it's simply the combination of
a series of actions in a linear data
flow with the output of one action
becoming the input into the next action.
And this is a simple example of
a workflow to find some photos
with a particular keyword,
do some processing on them,
package them up,
and then email them out to a
particular address book group.
Now you'll note that our friend
Copy Finder Items that I used as an
example of an action is in there.
And in fact this is simply a workflow
consisting of six separate actions.
So that's a little background.
So what are we going to learn today?
Well, you're going to learn how to
build an action using AppleScript.
And these are some of the tasks and tools
that we're going to use to do that today.
You're going to learn how to
manage the user interface of your
action and as the user changes
the interface elements in it,
how you read those values in your
scripts in two different ways using both
Cocoa Bindings and AppleScript Studio.
Again, this is a hands-on session.
I hope that all of you have had a
chance to download the sample code.
We've provided you with pre-built
projects for each step from 1
to 6 as well as a final version
that has everything in that
I'm going to show you today.
They do require Xcode 2.1.
They're in the new project format,
but those of you who have Xcode
2.0 installed can still build
along with me if you like.
We're going to start from scratch,
so you don't need to use the
pre-built projects to do this.
I'm going to point out that
if you're in that situation,
there is a detailed outline that lists
every step we're going to follow and also
all of the code and other materials that
you'll need to build the action today.
Just another note on that topic,
the milestones are the
end point of each step.
So the step one milestone is
where we will end step one,
so it would be the beginning of step two.
And you have a couple of options.
This is intended to
be a hands-on session,
so I certainly encourage you if
you've got the sample code or you've
got your PowerBook open to go ahead
and build the action along with me.
But you can also just open up
the different milestones of the
completed project and look at the
changes that I'm making as I do them,
or simply just watch and then
experiment with the sample
code later at your leisure.
So let's get started
on creating an action.
So just kind of review again.
We're going to be talking
about AppleScript Actions,
and that's one of the types of
actions that you can create.
You can also create actions using Cocoa,
and there's another session
this afternoon in this exact
auditorium that you can learn about
how to create a Cocoa Actions.
And you can also now,
with Xcode Tools 2.1,
create them using other
scripting languages,
and there's a session tomorrow
afternoon about how to do that.
And each of these types has a
different requirement for creating
an action using that technology.
If you want to create
an AppleScript action,
well, the application you want to target
needs to have a scripting interface.
It needs to be scriptable.
If you want to create a Cocoa action,
the application or technology you
want to access needs to provide you
with a set of APIs and a framework
that you can link into your action.
And if you want to create an action
using another scripting language,
you'll need to have some kind
of command line tool that you
can access from that language.
One other point is that you don't
necessarily need to target an
application with your action.
You are perfectly able to create
an action simply using the
features of AppleScript language
itself or Objective-C or C++,
any of the other programming languages
that are possible with actions.
So the technologies and tools
we're going to use today in
this session are AppleScript,
of course, AppleScript Studio,
and there's another hands-on
session tomorrow morning
about AppleScript Studio if
you're interested in that.
And we're also going
to use Cocoa Bindings,
and there's another session on
Cocoa Bindings this afternoon if
you're interested in that technology,
which is very useful for
building actions of all types.
And, of course,
we use Interface Builder to build
our interface for our action
and Xcode to manage the project,
including a new feature in Xcode 2.1
that makes it much easier to configure
your action's Info.plist settings,
a new action target inspector.
So with that,
I'd like to switch to Demo 2 and
give you a glimpse of what we're
actually going to build together.
So you see the end point.
So this is Automator in a simple
workflow consisting of three actions.
We've got Ask for Finder Items,
which is one of the actions
that comes with Tiger,
just to give some input into our
action Duplicate Finder Items.
And you can see that we have a checkbox
that controls whether or not the
output of this action is going to be
references to the duplicated items or
the original items if it's unchecked.
We have a destination pop-up that
allows us to choose standard locations
or choose any location on our disk.
And down at the bottom
you can see the example.
This isn't the most exciting example.
There are much better examples in
actions such as Rename Finder Items.
But this will show us how to
add some more advanced user
interface behavior to our action.
And just to give you an idea of
what this looks like when we run,
to show this is a working action,
we'll just select a couple of images.
Can I make it larger?
Command Shift, Command Option.
How's that?
Improvisation.
So in fact,
that's all I really wanted to show you.
But actually,
we can show you in Finder that, in fact,
that copied those-- that
duplicate-- where did I put them?
In documents.
So here are our duplicated images.
And how do I turn that off
because that's going to...
will give you a real
close-up view of that.
That's what we're going to build.
So back to slides please.
So our step one,
we're going to start from scratch.
We're going to create a new
Action Project in Xcode and build a very
simple initial version just with one line
of AppleScript to implement a simpler
version of what I just showed you.
So in order to do that
we're going to create a new
AppleScript Automator Action project.
We're going to write a very
simple one-line script to
implement the action's behavior.
I'm going to show you how to build
and test the action and then give
you a tour of what you get out of the
box with the minimal changes that I'm
going to make to the action template.
So with that, oh, I'm sorry,
I'll have these layout diagrams
throughout the hands-on
session to let you know which
file we're going to change.
In this case we're only going to
change the main.AppleScript file.
So back to demo two, please.
Okay, so the first step is to
create a new project,
so we're going to bring up
Xcode's Project Assistant.
As you can see,
we have three different types of actions.
Cocoa Actions you can
learn about this afternoon,
ShellScript Actions tomorrow afternoon.
But we're going to create an
AppleScript Automator Action.
And we'll even spell it correctly.
I will create our project and hopefully
you can see this a little bit better.
And if I can grab the splitter.
So just to give you a little
tour of what we've got in here,
we've got our main.AppleScript
in the scripts group.
We've got a number of resources
including a strings file and our
main.nib which we'll edit later to
build our Actions user interface.
A number of frameworks
that are linked in.
The product that we're
going to be building,
a .action bundle.
And the Info.plist.
All we really need to do in this step
is to come into our main.AppleScript
and think about what behavior
we want to add to this action.
So we want to make a
duplicate finder items action.
And what we might want to do
is look up finder's dictionary.
which we can do right in Xcode to see
what the duplicate command can do.
[Transcript missing]
But we don't have any of those yet
because our action at this point
doesn't have a user interface.
So all we need to do
is a telfinder to duplicate
the input to our action.
So we'll save that.
The next step then is to
build and test this action.
And what we have set up in the template
is a custom executable for Automator to
make the process of building and testing
your action very similar to building
and testing any other application.
And if we open the inspector on that,
you'll see it's just pointing
to Automator.app/applications.
And we have a -action argument which is
added automatically based on the project
name to pass the built product for your
action to Automator on the command line.
So it will be loaded in and
you can immediately use it
and test it in your workflows.
So we'll go ahead and build and go.
will build the action and then
launch Automator passing the newly
built action on the command line.
And we're probably going to
need to zoom in there again.
So you can see we've got this
funny looking application group
up here which holds our action.
That's because we haven't yet configured
our action to tell Automator which
application group it should appear in.
Another issue is we don't
have the finder icon here.
That's another setting that we need
to tell Automator about our action.
And if we select the action and
look down here in the try not
to give you all motion sickness.
In the description area,
we haven't filled out the description to
tell the user who might be interested in
using this action what in fact it does.
And if we add the action to the workflow,
you'll see it has no user interface
and the types that it takes as input
and output are not configured either.
So we've got an action
and in fact we can,
let me zoom out so I can see here,
we can in fact use this as it is.
and again choose an item and it's
already working it duplicates the item
and passes the original back because
we haven't done anything differently
than that and we'll look in pictures
because it's going to duplicate in
the same folder and there's our copy.
So just with that one line we've already
got a working action but of course
it's fairly limited at this point.
and we've got a lot of things that we
need to clean up in the configuration.
So let's go back to slides please.
So that was step one.
We've already learned how to create a
project and implement a simple version
of it by modifying its main.AppleScript
and how to build and test it.
So what we want to do next
is add some more options.
I'm sorry.
We're going to next configure
the Info.plist to correct
those little hiccups in there
where the application group is,
its icon, its description, etc.
So there's a bit more
background information here.
Automator has a number of keys in
its info P list that each action
specifies to tell Automator how
to handle this particular action.
The ones that I've mentioned so far
AM Application is what controls
which group your action will
appear in in Automator's library.
The category is not shown
in the user interface,
but it is useful for doing searches
in Automator search fields.
So I encourage you to choose a category.
You can find the categories for
our actions in their Info.plist,
or you can create your own
for your own sets of actions.
The "AM Icon Name" controls the
icon that appears to the left of the
action's name in the action column.
And amname controls the name of the
action that appears in the action column.
Now, in Xcode 2.1 the project template
has been updated so that it
automatically names your action based
on the project name you selected,
sensibly enough,
but you can of course change that
again later if you so choose.
So some other important
settings are the types,
the valid types of input and output
that your action accepts and provides.
And for those we have a pair of keys,
am accepts, which again specifies
what input is accepted,
and you can see it highlighted there,
the English description that
appears in the user interface.
includes a types array which allows
you to specify one or more types that
are valid for your action that it can
handle and do something interesting with.
AMXEPS dictionary also includes an
optional Boolean so you can tell
Automator whether or not your action
requires input to work properly.
Many actions don't
actually require any input.
So similarly, there's an am provides key,
and this is identical to am accepts,
except it doesn't require
an optional boolean.
And this specifies what the
output your action provides to
the next action in the workflow.
And again, it can be an array if it
returns more than one type.
So some guidelines on choosing these.
We have documented a number of these
types that we use for our own actions
in the Automator Programming Guide.
And you should certainly adopt those
as often as you can so that your
action is the most interoperable with
as many other actions as possible.
However,
it is possible to create your own types
and that's one of the things that we're
going to cover in more detail in the
Cocoa Action Session this afternoon.
Again, you can specify multiple types.
For example, if your action accepts both
address book groups and people.
Another special case,
the View Results Action that
I've been using to test
duplicate finder items today,
doesn't require any input,
but we don't want it to block the
data flow through the workflow.
So if your action doesn't need any input
and doesn't do anything with its input,
it should just pass through
the input it receives.
And you just leave the types
as general as possible.
The idea here is you want to give
Automator the most detailed and
accurate information you can so
it can best handle your action and
give the user the most support in
using it properly in workflows.
So I've already mentioned that
you can create your own types.
If you need to do that for your actions,
if your application specifies some types
that are different from the standard
ones that we've already identified,
what you should also do is create a set
of conversion actions to convert your
new type to one of the existing types.
Conversion Actions are a great
Automator feature that allows types
that don't appear to match in the
user interface to in fact look
like they match to the user because
Automator invisibly and automatically
adds in whatever needed actions that
it has access to to map from say,
iPhoto photos to files folders.
There are automatic conversions
to get between those types so that
when you add those actions to the
workflow it will appear to be a match.
These actions are just like
any other action except for
three minor differences.
You build them with the same project,
but the product needs to be a .c
action for conversion action bundle.
They don't have any UI because they
are never seen by the user unless,
of course, you show Automator's log.
So you can see when these are
actually executing in your workflow.
But to the user just
looking at the workflow,
they're invisible.
Automator handles it automatically.
And for those of you
familiar with AppleScript,
this is a very similar or
concept to AppleScript coercions.
And again,
we're going to actually talk quite a bit
about this in the Cocoa Action session
this afternoon and even show you
how to create a conversion action.
So what we're going to do in step two,
again,
is configure our InfoP-List and fill
in some of those missing settings
that made our action not look quite
right in Automator's user interface.
And we're going to do that in two ways,
well actually three.
For those of you who haven't
upgraded yet to Xcode 2.1,
well you should, but if you haven't yet,
I'm going to show you how you can edit
your InfoP-List in two different ways.
And then I'm going to show you the
improvements we've made in Xcode 2.1
and made this much easier to do with
the new Action Target Inspector.
So in this step we're going
to only modify the Info.plist.
And with that, please back to demo two.
So let's come back to
Xcode and stop that.
So one way to edit your Info.plist is
simply to edit it as a text file here
in Xcode and you can certainly do that.
For example, we want our action to
accept alias objects,
not just any object.
However, a safer way to do this is
to use Property List Editor,
and you can do that easily
from within Xcode by opening
the InfoP list with Finder.
and we can see all the different keys,
some of which I've talked about
already and some of which I haven't.
But this is the AM accepts dictionary.
And let's zoom in.
So we can see we've got our types
array with one element and I've
already edited that to be alias object,
the optional boolean.
In this case we certainly want that
to be no because this action doesn't
make any sense without any input.
And we also need to update
our am-provides dictionary.
To make a similar change
because our action is going
to also provide alias objects.
Let's save those changes.
Come back to Xcode.
So that's the Xcode 2.0 way
to edit your InfoP list.
In Xcode 2.1, if you disclose the target
and bring up the inspector and
switch to the properties pane,
You can see that up here at the
top are the standard settings,
the CFBundle executable,
the CFBundle identifier that you're
familiar with from any Xcode project.
Automator uses those too,
but down here at the bottom we've added
a lot more information for the different
collections of Automator settings.
And we'll start with the general.
Again,
the action name is set automatically
for you by the template.
But we need to set the application,
and again these map fairly closely
to the AM keys in your Info.plist.
This is AM application.
And we want that to be Finder.
Finder is the application that
our action uses to do its work.
We use that for the category as
well and for the icon which you
see then appears in the well
as soon as you add it in there.
These check boxes down here at the
bottom control the show action when
run option within the workflow which
allows a workflow creator to specify
that a particular actions user
interface should be shown at run
time so it can be dynamically set
by whoever is running the workflow.
We'll talk a little bit
more about that later.
Then we can go through some
of the other collections.
Input is again, am accepts,
which we've already set.
We've got the optional Boolean
and the change we've already made.
Same with output,
but it doesn't have the optional Boolean.
The parameters collection allows you to
specify parameters to hold the settings
for user interface elements that are
monitored using or maintained and managed
via Cocoa Bindings and I'm going to show
you how to do that in the next step.
Required Resources is another entry
that allows you to tell Automator
that there's a particular application
or file or any kind of reference,
or resource rather,
that your action needs on the
system for it to work properly.
The warning setting allows you
to tell Automator whether your
action makes changes to the data
that's input to it that are either
it doesn't change it at all,
which is the safe level,
and duplicate finder items
is a good example of that.
It doesn't do anything
to the original files,
it merely duplicates them.
Or whether your action makes
a change in a reversible way,
for example, flip image since you
can always flip it back.
Or in an irreversible way,
say cropping an image
which actually loses data.
So by setting this pop-up you can
tell Automator whether your action
is safe and then it can present
appropriate warnings to the user when
your action is added to the workflow.
And if we needed to change this
to one of the other settings,
we'd need to fill out these
other values down here.
Absolutely.
So what you need to do is show
your target and select it in
the Groups and Files column.
Let me zoom in there a bit.
So again, that's in Groups and Files,
the target for your action.
And then open the Inspector by
clicking the Info button.
And within the Inspector,
it's the Properties pane.
Absolutely.
So let me zoom out a bit
so it's not -- where was I?
So keywords.
Keywords are another way to make
it easy for users to find your
action in Automator's library
by doing searches for them.
So we'll add a few keywords that have
to do with our particular action.
The next collection is the description
which we've talked about already and
we see that we haven't configured this.
So there are a number of different
items that you can add specific to your
action that are highlighted differently
in Automator's description area.
In our particular case,
we're just going to add a summary.
I'm going to copy this out
from my little assistant,
but you can copy and paste this from
the outline if you have that open.
Moving on, we also have an entry
for related actions.
If your action is related to
a number of other actions,
you can specify one or more here
and those actions will be listed
in your actions description,
making it very easy for users to
figure out what actions your action
will be useful in conjunction with.
And finally,
we also make it easy to manage
localizations for your action,
and I'm going to be talking about
localizability in step five.
So with that we've configured our action
and let's go ahead and build and go
to see what improvements we've made
and how it appears within Automator.
So as we can see, we've
We no longer have that funny
application group at the top.
If we click on the finder group,
we see our action appears here
and it has the finder icon.
Now you'll notice the description
still isn't filled out yet.
Why is that?
Well, you're going to have to wait a bit.
I will explain why in a bit.
Let's add it to the workflow and
we see that we also now have our
typeset accurately in the workflow.
So we've corrected quite a few of
the issues that we identified in
our initial tour after step one.
So with that, please back to slides.
So again, with step two,
we just learned how to configure
the actions Info.plist file
to specify especially the
general settings and the types.
And I pointed out a few of the
other settings that may be of
interest depending on your particular
action that you're creating.
So in our next step we're going to
actually add some user interface
elements to our Actions user interface
and these elements we're going to
manage by using Cocoa Bindings.
So before we add anything
to our user interface,
I wanted to highlight a few important
design guidelines and also point out
that similarly to the human interface
guidelines for applications on
Mac OS X and the scripting interface
guidelines for your scriptable
interface for your application,
we also have identified some
guidelines specific to Action user
interfaces and they are documented
in the Automator Programming Guide.
The idea here is, again,
like the human interface guidelines
and the scripting interface guidelines
to help you achieve a consistent look
and feel for your actions so that they
work just like other actions and are
much easier for users to adopt and use.
We obviously have over 200 examples of
our own that you can use to get an idea
of what are good ideas and what are
bad ways to build your user interfaces.
As far as overall philosophy,
the idea is to keep
separate actions separate.
Don't try to make these giant actions
that do several different things.
It makes it much harder for them to
be used in conjunction with other
actions and also makes them harder
to understand what they do and
what are the right settings to use.
Really try to keep it simple.
I pointed out the parameters
collection in the target inspector
and this maps to the AM default
parameters key in your info P list.
These again are the default values
for keys managed by Cocoa Bindings,
the mapping of the setting from
the user interface element to
your script or your code if you're
working with a Cocoa Action.
The types for these parameters map very
clearly to different user interface
elements as outlined on the slide.
I won't bore you with the details.
You're going to see a
few examples in a moment.
We're going to use an Automator-specific
pop-up menu that we've established
to make it very easy to add file,
folder, and application choosing to
your Actions user interface.
I'm going to point out a few
relevant design guidelines as we go.
We'll then connect those elements
to our script using Cocoa Bindings,
add the necessary entries
to our parameters,
and then add the code necessary to
read those settings and make use of
them within our Actions behavior.
So in this step we're
going to be modifying,
sorry about that, modify three files.
We're going to start
by modifying the nib,
then add the entries to the info.p list,
and finally add the code
to your main.AppleScript.
So please over to demo two.
Oops.
All right, so let's open our nib file.
And this is what you get out of the box.
As you saw in Automator,
we've got this little
placeholder element here.
So we'll just take advantage of that.
[Transcript missing]
I'm going to build this interface a
little bit differently than what I've
been showing because it occurred to
me yesterday that it makes much more
sense with this checkbox on the bottom.
I'm not sure how well it's
going to work zoomed in.
So one of the things we need to do,
this is one of the design guidelines,
is that actions should
use small controls.
And by default we get a
regular size checkbox.
So in the inspector, which you can get by
command 1 or from the tools,
show inspector,
We want to change the size to small,
and as we see that changes
the size of the checkbox.
Then we want to add the
directory pop-up chooser,
and that again is the Automator specific
version of it that we've added in Tiger.
And to do that we need to
add the Automator palette.
So we need to go to Tools, Palettes,
Palette Preferences.
and click the Add button.
Forced me to navigate
back up to Developer,
Extras, Palettes,
and choose ampalette.palette.
As you see that immediately gives
us auto up here in the IB palette.
Absolutely.
So Tools,
this is again within Interface Builder.
The Tools menu, select the Palettes item,
and then the Palette Preferences
item within that submenu.
That will bring up Interface
Builder's preferences with
the palettes pane selected.
Then you need to click the
Add button and in that open
panel navigate up to Developer,
Extras,
Palettes and select ampalette.palette.
So what we want to do here is allow
the user to specify the directory into
which the items will be duplicated.
So we're going to choose
the middle one here,
drag it out to our interface,
make sure we get it
lined up with our label.
And then use the IB guidelines
to line it up with our checkbox.
And in the attributes for our pop-up
we're going to make a few changes.
For example, we can allow
The user to choose new paths.
And something more interesting
for this particular action,
we can allow a placeholder.
This will...
will allow the user to specify, "Well,
I don't want to duplicate these
items to a different location.
I just want to duplicate them in
place." And we'll rename that to "Same
Folder" for this particular action.
So one other design
guideline we need to do,
if you select all the items in the
interface and hold down the option key,
you'll see that IB gives
you a pixel guide.
And one of the UI guidelines is to have
a 10 pixel border around the elements
within your Actions user interface.
This is important because you
don't have control over exactly
how your action is laid out.
You only have control over what your,
the view that you're building here.
Automator will load this view.
Wow, this is really hard to do zoomed in.
There we go.
by holding down the Option key.
So let me zoom back out again,
I think that was...
Okay, there we go.
And again, you can select all with
Command-A and then hold down
Option to see the pixel boundaries.
Well, that sent us out again.
You all will get them to 10.
We'll leave that as good enough for now.
The importance is that Automator
is going to load your view within
the action view which includes
the title bar and the status bar.
So for your action to look like other
actions and not have obvious gaps,
you need to have that standard
10 pixel gap margin around the
outside of your interface elements.
So now that we've built the interface,
we need to connect it to some
variables that we can read from
our script using Cocoa Bindings.
And to do that,
we're going to again use the inspector
and bring up the Bindings pane,
which you can do with Command-4.
And I will zoom in again.
For the checkbox we're going
to use the value binding.
Whoa, that was pretty cool.
And what we want to do is
name the model keypath,
the value that we can
then read in our script.
So let's just name this
return duplicate items.
This will become important later
because we're going to have to use this
exact same name within our Info.plist.
They need to match,
otherwise this won't work,
and I will again remind
you of that later.
So we've made the binding for the
checkbox and named the variable that
we'll be able to read from our script.
So now we need to do the same
thing for the pop-up menu so we
can read its value from our script.
And for this one we want
to use the path binding.
And for that one let's
call it the to location.
And again we'll make that binding.
Save our Nib file.
We've got our interface built.
We've made the connections
using bindings.
And now we're going to return to Xcode.
And again, we can do this with--
if you have Xcode 2.0,
you can do this by opening the
plist in Property List Editor.
opening--excuse me,
disclosing the AM default parameters key,
adding a new child,
And let's add the to location this way.
And that is a string.
Again, this is going to receive a
POSIX path from that pop-up menu.
And by default let's just leave it be
the placeholder which means an empty
string so we're in fact done here.
Let's save that change.
And we'll add the other
So, you get to the necessary parameter
for the checkbox using the inspector.
Again, you get to the inspector from
by selecting the target and
then opening the inspector.
The info panel.
Selecting the properties pane,
and we need to select the
parameters collection.
and add a new entry.
So again,
this is where it's critical that
this exactly match what you've
used in your nib so that the values
will be transferred accurately.
For this one we'll make it a Boolean
and we'll want the default the
checkbox to default to checked.
All right, so now we have built our
user interface in the Nib,
we've made the bindings,
we've added entries to hold the
binding values in our Info.plist.
The last step is to update our
main.AppleScript to actually go
ahead and use those settings and
do something different depending
on what the user has selected.
So here I'm going to
use my assistant again,
but the code that I'm about to paste
in here is also in the outline that you
have as part of the session materials.
And we'll bring over a new version
of main.AppleScript and compile
it so we get the formatting.
And I will walk you through this.
So again it's the run handler.
We get the input and
the parameters block,
passed from Automator.
The first thing we're going to do
is read the two values that the
user has set in the user interface
from the parameters block.
And that is as simple,
again these are the same names that we've
added in our Nib and in our InfoP list.
Absolutely.
How's that?
So that's the first thing we
need to do is read those values.
We assign them to variables so
we can use them in our script.
Now as I mentioned,
the to location coming from that pop-up
is actually a POSIX path as a string.
So what we need to do is first
make sure that we expand any
tildes if this path that the user
selected is documents or desktops,
something based on their home directory.
And in order to do that we're going
to use a Cocoa call called string
by expanding tilde in path using
AppleScript Studio's call method command.
This is an idiom that's going to be very
common for writing AppleScript actions
using the ampath pop-up button.
That's that nice Automator path chooser.
And the good news is you have this code
because it's part of the sample code and
you can use this in your own actions.
So we're going to expand
the path and then convert it
into an AppleScript alias.
That's what this block of code does.
We can talk about that in Q&A if
people are interested in that.
The next thing we want to do is
actually go ahead and use the
values that the user has set.
The to location,
if the to location is an empty string
that means the user has selected
the placeholder and we just want
to duplicate the items in place,
which means we can actually use the
exact same line of code that we used in
our initial implementation in step one.
Otherwise,
we want to actually pass to Finder
the target folder that the user
selected in this second line.
Finally, we want to
And then we want to save the result
that Finder sends back so we know
what the duplicate items are in
case the user wants to return those
as the output from the action.
And in that case,
what Finder returns are actually
Finder-style references to the items,
and our action is supposed
to return alias objects.
So what we need to do is iterate
through that list that's returned
by Finder to convert them to
aliases and then return them.
So if the user hasn't asked for
the duplicate items to be returned,
then we just want to go ahead and
return input again just like the simple
version that we implemented in step one.
So we've got our source changed.
Let's go ahead and build and go.
[Transcript missing]
So we've got our checkbox and
we've got our pop-up menu.
And you've seen this
running several times,
you'll see it running again,
so I'm not going to take
the time to run it now,
but I can assure you it works.
Hopefully those of you following along
with me are finding that that's the case.
And with that, let's go back to slides.
So we've got our checkbox and
we've got our pop-up menu.
And you've seen this
running several times,
you'll see it running again,
so I'm not going to take
the time to run it now,
but I can assure you it works.
Hopefully those of you following along
with me are finding that that's the case.
And with that, let's go back to slides.
and how to connect those
elements that you add to your
script using Cocoa Bindings.
So the next step is to add that example,
if you remember from what
I showed you originally,
some more advanced behavior that
occurs in the Actions user interface
as the user is changing values,
not just at workflow runtime.
And we're going to use
AppleScript Studio to do that.
So what we're going to do in
this step is we're going to,
again, add that behavior to our
actions user interface.
I will outline a few of the
important AppleScript Studio handlers
that you need to implement in
order to add that behavior.
And then test the action with
show action when run option,
which I mentioned earlier
but haven't shown you yet,
and show you how to make sure that
that works properly with your action.
So in this step we're going to edit the
main.nib again and then add a new file,
a new script file to hold the
studio handlers to implement
the behavior we're going to add.
So please back to demo two.
So let's return to our nib.
Let's just, hello.
Let's reorganize these just for fun.
And what we want to do is add that
I'm just going to duplicate those
text objects with Command D.
It's easier to edit them that
way and get the right size.
I'm just going to make the example label.
And you can use Command equals to
resize the text to fit the entered text.
And just add a placeholder
that we can add next to it.
You can use again the
IB guidelines to line those up.
And let's line up our
interface elements again.
Again, you hold down the Option key
to see these pixel guides.
One other thing we'll do,
we'll stretch this out because the
text is unlikely to be that short.
And whereas the text we're going to
show here is really going to only
have one of two values in an action
that is doing something a little
bit more interesting with this,
that the size of that
text is going to scale.
So what we want to do is look
at the size inspector pane.
and--oops, not vertical springs-- but
add horizontal springs.
What this will do is if the text
is larger than that default size
we've established in the nib is it
will dynamically scale depending on
what text is actually added there.
All right, so that's what we need to
do to lay out the elements.
Now what we need to do is
start connecting them via
AppleScript Studio to our scripts.
So what we need to do is
switch to the AppleScript pane.
For the text field that we're going
to use to actually dynamically set the
text based on the checkbox setting,
and we'll just call that example.
And what we want to do is have
this behavior happen whenever
the user checks that checkbox,
we want to update the example.
To do that we're going to add a
clicked handler to that object.
And we also want to name it
to return duplicate items.
So that we can access that
object from our script by name.
Now in order to actually
implement that handler,
we need to add a new script.
So within the inspector we
can click the new button.
and we'll call it ui.applescript and
we'll make it an AppleScript text
file as far as format.
And click Save to create the file.
Sorry, that's so jumpy.
But hopefully you can see
there we've added the clicked
handler and it's attached to
the UI.AppleScript script file.
Now, one other handler we need
to add is to the view.
That's the view that contains
all of the elements we've
added to our user interface.
And we need to add the
AwakeFromNibHandler,
which is called when your action is
loaded by Automator in preparation
for adding it to the workflow.
and the Open Handler,
which is called right before Automator
actually opens it up in the workflow.
And we're going to also attach
those to our UI.AppleScript.
These other handlers can also
be used for different purposes.
The activated handler is called
when the workflow containing your
action becomes frontmost again.
So if there's something that
you need to update each time
the workflow is frontmost,
you can implement that handler.
The parameters updated and
update parameters handlers I'll
talk about a little bit later.
So let's click edit.
Well, we'll save our nib.
I won't do that when I'm zoomed in.
Click Edit to open up our
new script that we created.
And again, I'm going to get rid of
the default and copy in
The right code and again this
is in your outline so that
you can also copy and paste.
Compile that and let me
step you through this.
So this first line is just to
set up a property to hold a
reference to that content view
of your action that holds all the
individual user interface elements.
And since we attach the
AwakeFromNibHandler to that object,
we can simply set that property to
the object that's passed into that
handler because that's the only object
that is attached to that handler.
Now I showed you attaching the
opened and clicked handlers.
Again, the clicked handler is called
when the user checks the checkbox.
The open handler is called when the
action is opened within the workflow,
when the user adds it to the workflow.
And all we need to do in that case
is update the example to show the
current setting of the checkbox.
I've separated that out into a
separate handler called update_example,
and all it needs to do is
it uses the AppleScript tell
block to tell the content view
to check the state of the button.
And one other thing
that I'll show you here,
that checkbox is actually a button.
If you don't know what class you need to
use or what property you need to check,
In each action template we've
provided a reference to the
AppleScript Studio dictionary and
you can search for the button class.
and look at all its properties.
Sorry, I'll zoom in again.
So we can see that state is in fact what
we need to read to access what state,
whether it's checked or not.
[Transcript missing]
So that's what we're going to do
is we're going to read the value.
If the state of the button is checked,
and we're reading it by name,
the name we established in our Nib file.
We're going to set a variable
to return duplicate items,
just that string.
If it's not set, return original items.
And then set the content
of the text field example,
again we labeled that text field
in the AppleScript pane in the Nib,
to that string.
And again you could look up text field
in the Studio dictionary to find out
that content is the property that
you need to set in order to do that.
So with that, let's build and go again.
Save changes we made to our nib.
Drag out our action and we see that was
the open handler getting called to update
the example and if we check the checkbox,
well you probably can't see it
but I'll zoom in so you can.
As we check the checkbox
the example updates.
So this is not particularly enlightening,
or this is not the most
compelling example.
However,
you can imagine that there are many
interesting things that you can do
based on this in your own actions.
I will highlight,
really rename finder items,
which shows another use of this
technique to show an example of what
the renamed items will look like.
And again, it dynamically updates based
on the choices the user
makes in the user interface.
This is a very powerful technique.
However,
what we'd like to do is try this with
the show action when run option to
make sure that it all works properly.
And again, what this is,
is what this tells Automator to
do is when I run this workflow,
It will actually dynamically show
that user interface at workflow
runtime so that if I want to
make this workflow more general,
Every time the workflow runs,
I'll have the opportunity to
configure this Actions user interface.
So again, I can do all the things I can
at workflow creation time.
And the dynamic behavior
I added here works correctly.
But let's make sure it works
correctly after I run this.
So
What you can see is I've
checked return duplicate items.
When I initially ran this workflow it's
not checked behind it as you see here.
So we click continue.
We see that the pop-up menu
has been updated based on what
I chose in the show and run panel.
But the example hasn't.
You can see now the checkbox
and the example don't match.
And it will get back in sync
if I check it some more.
But something's not getting,
it's not getting updated when,
based on what the user
did when shown when run.
So we need to fix that.
And to do that we're going
to add an additional handler.
So let's go back to our Nib file.
And we've implemented the opened handler.
What we need to do is also implement
the parameters updated handler.
And this handler is called whenever
the parameters controlled by bindings
that are in the parameters block
that we're reading are updated.
And this gives us an opportunity
to update our user interface,
which is in fact what we need to do.
So this gives us a hook into when we need
to update our interface because behind
the scenes the parameters have changed.
So we'll edit our script file again.
Remove the comments.
And again, this code is in your outline.
I missed.
And what you can see here is what we're
doing is we're reading the parameter.
Again,
we know that that was changed because
that's why this handler was called
and we're making sure that our user
interface is updated by setting
the state of the button to match
the parameter from the binding.
And then updating the example.
And it's really as simple as that.
Let's build again and verify
that it's working as we expect.
So now if we change that
to return original items,
again the example updates
correctly here in the panel,
and as we continue we see that
in fact the change was made
is reflected in the workflow.
So we've now completed the circle so that
all the changes are accurately reflected.
please back to slides.
So in step three you learned
about how to connect interface
elements via Cocoa Bindings.
Step four we just learned how to do
that using AppleScript Studio which
gives you more power to do more
interesting things in your Actions
user interface to dynamically reflect
right within the Actions interface
the settings that the user has chosen.
And we've shown the show and run
feature and how to make sure that it
works correctly with behavior that
you've added using AppleScript Studio.
So the next step,
I alluded to this earlier,
I'm going to show you how to
make your action localizable,
which we certainly
encourage all of you to do.
All of the actions provided by
Apple have been localized into many
different languages and we certainly
would like to continue that with
as many other actions as possible.
So what we're going to do in this
step is the Info.plist entries to
control what application group,
keywords, the description, et cetera,
make those localizable.
And then I'm also going to show you
how to read localized strings from your
scripts so that the scripts that appear
in that example can be localized as well.
In this case we're going to update
our UI.AppleScript file to read those
localized strings and we're going
to update our Info.plist.strings
file which is the localized
version of the Info.plist keys.
And we will add a new file,
localizable.strings.
Back to demo two please.
So the first thing we want to
do is see what we get by default
in our Info.plist.strings.
And automatically Automator
sets up in the template,
using the template, the name so it's
localizable out of the box.
But as you see, we're not able to do that
for these other settings,
for the application, the category,
if there are any default parameters
that need to be localizable,
the description,
Keywords and the warning
strings if needed.
So again I'm going to copy
in the final version of this.
And this is in your outline.
Save that and walk you through it.
So the top hasn't really changed,
but here we know finder is
the string that we're using
for application and category.
We only need one entry
in the strings file,
so it's there,
and again it's key equals value.
The only default parameter that's a
string is set to the empty string,
but if we were setting it to
something that was a string
that could be localized,
you could add that entry here as well,
to location equals and then the value.
We've made our summary string
localizable and our keywords localizable.
And we haven't used the warning
settings so we won't change that.
So that's really all it takes
is adding these entries to
your Info.plist.strings file,
which is created for you by default
and has placeholders in place to
make it easy for you to add these.
And then of course you
would need to create
French.elpraj to Spanish.elpraj
based on the languages that
you want to localize this into.
So the other side of the coin is within
our scripts where we use strings.
And in our particular case,
the display example is the best example.
We're actually hard-coding these
strings right here within our script.
And to make this action
fully localizable,
we need to be reading those from
a file that can be localized.
So again, this code is in your outline.
And the only change really is that we're,
instead of just setting
the string by itself,
we're passing that as a key into a
handler called mylocalizedstring.
You might wonder what that is.
Well, we haven't added it yet.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And this is just simply a convenience.
I could have added this
localized string command right
within the script code twice,
but this just makes things
a little bit cleaner.
And this is the CFBundle identifier that
is set in your Actions target inspector.
It's set automatically for you based
on the project name at creation time,
but if you change it for any reason,
you'll need to make sure
that you update it here.
And this setting needs to match
this setting in the inspector panel.
Let me zoom in for you.
in order to look up the
file to find those strings.
So of course the next step is
we actually need to add a file
that contains those strings.
So we'll add that to
our resources folder.
Create a new file in Xcode and we're just
going to select empty file in project.
And this is an important point.
This file must be named
localizable.strings.
Spelled correctly, strings.
and this will look very similar
to the Info.plist.strings,
it's just key equals value again.
For the strings that we
want to make localizable.
And to test this,
I know you might not believe
me that they're localizable,
so let's actually change the values
to make sure that our action actually
really is looking these up out
of the localizable.strings file,
which again would make it
possible for you to duplicate
this to another languages.lproj.
And one thing that I overlooked here is
we need to make this file localizable.
So by selecting the file in
the groups and files column,
we again bring up the inspector.
and click the
Make File Localizable button.
That's all it takes.
And that will move it into the
right place in our project.
And we're of course seeing
the English version,
but again you can duplicate this and
then change the values to translate
return duplicate items into whichever
language you're working with.
So let's build and test that.
bring out our action again.
And as you can see, or maybe not,
now you can see, we have
bring out our action again.
And as you can see, or maybe not,
now you can see, we have
[Transcript missing]
And our final step today is I'd
like to show you a little bit about
how to test and debug your actions.
So you've seen a little
bit of this already.
I showed you the Automator
Custom Executable,
which has a dash action argument
configured to pass your action to
Automator when you hit build and go.
I'm going to talk a little bit more
about AMLint on the next slide,
but that's a new tool that
we've added in Xcode 2.1,
and that's run before launching
Automator and after your Action is
built to do some verification.
You can also build and debug,
which again I'll do in a moment,
to use the AppleScript debugger to step
through your script code and view the
variables as you're stepping through it.
When you're testing your
action within a workflow,
you may want to be able to pause and
step through each action to verify
that the output that's going in--
or the input that's going into your
action is what you want and even cancel
if things are going badly for you.
And in order to do that,
you can add pairs of view results actions
to see the output of the previous action
and therefore the next action's input
and ask for confirmation actions to
pause and then cancel if you like or
continue the execution of the workflow.
So AMLint.
AMLint is an action verification tool,
as you might gather from the name.
This is new in Xcode 2.1,
and we've integrated it right
into the Action Project Templates.
You get this out of the box.
It's another build phase.
It's run automatically
after your action is built,
but before it launches Automator
and passes your action to it.
You can also run it on
existing .action bundles.
It's in userbin.amlint.
And what it does is it checks
for various violations of the
design guidelines in the Nib,
in the InfoP list,
and we will continue to
expand its checks over time.
But it can really help you to
avoid some common problems.
So what we're going to do in this
step is I'm going to show you some
common errors in the nib that AMLint
will flag and how to fix them,
and then debug the action using
some AppleScript log statements
as well as the debugger.
So I'll try--and we're running long here,
so I will keep this a bit short.
Let's go into our main.AppleScript.
What we're going to do for this one is,
in contrast to all the other milestones,
is the Step 6 milestone is actually
the beginning milestone for this
If you are following along with me,
please open up the Step 6 project.
So here's our main.AppleScript.
And, well, we don't need to do that yet.
What we want to do is add some
logging in our handlers just
to make sure that they're being
executed when we think they are.
And one trick,
it's not actually necessary here,
but it's a good habit to get into,
is to use "tell me to log"
instead of just "log". If you're
within another tell block,
a plain log statement will not
give you the desired results,
but "tell me to log" will always
give you what you're expecting.
let's do the same thing
within our update example.
We'll save that.
And then let's build and debug.
All right, well you might not be
able to see that there,
but our build actually failed.
Our errors and warnings is red
and we see down here in the
status bar that the build failed.
So let's look up at our
errors and warnings.
Okay, so we see that AMLint has
flagged two errors in our nib,
that text fields are
using the wrong font.
So let's open up our nib again.
And we can see that yes, in fact,
in this version of the nib,
in this milestone, the example label and
placeholder are the wrong font.
They're much bigger than
the other fonts here.
And if we look at the
attributes we'll see that yes,
in fact, the size is regular.
So that's the error,
the violation of the design
guidelines that AMLint is flagging.
And if we fix those...
and we save our nib and we'll
take the time to realign those.
Now if we build and debug,
Our build should complete and
Automator should launch within
the AppleScript debugger.
Let's build a workflow
and actually test this.
So when I showed you
running this earlier,
I showed it to you running,
selecting multiple items.
So let's just select,
actually I did show it selecting one.
Let's just select one single item.
And what we see is in View Results
that we get an empty list.
Well,
that's not what we should have gotten.
We should have gotten
a list with one item,
the duplicated item for the
: Well, so that's not good,
but let's see if that is specific
to returning the duplicate items.
Let's run the workflow again.
Okay,
in that case we did get what we expected.
We got a reference to the input file.
So this bug seems to be specific
to returning duplicate items,
and we can further test this
by selecting multiple items.
In that case, you can see, I hope,
that we are in fact getting
references to the duplicated items.
So this seems to be specific to
returning duplicate items when
only one item has been added.
So we've got this already
running under the debugger,
main.AppleScript, and put in a breakpoint
so we can step through.
And we know that the
problem is within this case,
so let's break there.
And in Xcode,
for those of you not familiar,
you just click in the
margin to add a breakpoint.
And in fact, in Xcode 2.1,
we can add breakpoint actions,
including AppleScript commands.
Not a second-class citizen.
So let's see,
we want to just display dialog,
returning duplicate items.
and we can add in one of these
placeholders which you probably
can't see because it's too
small but there are various
Placeholder,
so we want to add in the breakpoint name.
Okay, so that's our break point and
we're still within the debugger,
so let's go back and
run that workflow again.
and we know that the failure case
is when we only pass in one item,
so let's do that.
And here's our display dialog
with our breakpoint action.
And here we are stopped in the debugger.
So let's make that a little
bit bigger and zoom in.
So let's go ahead and step through this.
Another thing to point out
is we've got all of our,
we've got our variables
displayed up here.
Duplicate Finder Items.
That's the result that we got
returned from the command of Finder.
And let's see,
we've got our two locations.
So let's step through and
find out what happened here.
So here's where we're going
to loop through our list of
items returned from Finder.
and we see we skipped
right past the loop.
Well, that would certainly explain,
since duplicate item aliases
is still an empty list,
why we're getting an empty
list as our return value.
So we've tracked down
where the problem is,
then we need to figure out why,
and in fact we can see that
duplicate finder items isn't a list.
So finder is not returning us
a list as we were expecting,
so we're going to have to be a
little bit smarter about that,
and I will leave it as an
exercise to all of you,
or you can just open up the final
step which has this bug corrected.
And finally, let me just show you the
console log to show you that,
in fact, our log statements when
Awake from Nib was called,
which happens once, and I clicked the
checkbox a couple times,
so each time I did that,
as well as on opening,
we got our updating example
log message to the console log.
So with that,
let's back to slides please.
So just one final point about
installing your actions.
Apple's actions go in
System Library Automator,
but for your actions,
if you have an installer,
you can install them in the user's
home directory Library Automator
or for everyone on the
system in /library/automator.
You can also put them in the
network domain of the library.
Or what is very useful for those of you
who have applications that just have drag
installs and you don't have an installer,
you don't need to add one
just for Automator Actions.
You can install your Automator Actions
inside your application bundle,
inside contents library Automator,
and Automator will automatically
find them as soon as your application
is dragged onto the user system.
So, just to sum up,
what have we learned today?
We've learned how to build, test, debug,
and install an action using AppleScript,
AppleScript Studio,
and Cocoa Bindings to manage the
relationship between your actions user
interface elements and your scripts.
And we've used interface builder and
Xcode to build and manage our project.
So what next?
Well, I hope-- I know that some of
you are following along and
continue to experiment with
this particular sample project.
There's quite a bit of documentation.
There's a brand new AppleScript action
tutorial that has just been released,
along with Xcode 2.1.
And explore the other example projects
that are part of the developer tools
in Developer Examples Automator.
There are a number of examples,
not just for AppleScript Actions,
but for the other action types as well.
And finally,
go back to work and write and ship lots
of great actions for your applications.
We're really looking forward to that.
So just a pointer to the general URL.
This has pointers to the
documentation that I've referred
to as well as the sample code and
other resources for this topic.
There are a great number of related
sessions going on this afternoon and
all day tomorrow on Cocoa Bindings,
Cocoa Automator Actions,
AppleScript Studio, two labs tomorrow.
If you would like some help
or get stuck with writing
actions for your application,
please come to the lab tomorrow morning
and we'll be more than happy to help you.
And then finally tomorrow afternoon,
I hope you'll stick around.
I know that's going to be a great
session on Automator Actions using
the new shell scripting action type
tomorrow afternoon in building Automator
Actions for System Administrators.
Some contact information,
I'd like to highlight the developer
mailing list which I'm sure a
number of you are participating in.
and I encourage you to subscribe
and we're starting to build
a great community there.
The Apple engineers try to help out
as well but there's been a lot of
outside developers that have been
helping each other and that's great.
We're building a community.